hello internet welcome to part two of a
four-part series I'm doing on Cameron
basics today I am talking about shooting
in manual mode all this means is you as
the user are controlling the light
coming into the camera rather than the
cameras and it's automatic settings so
you control how much light comes in to
the camera by adjusting three settings
that is the aperture or otherwise known
as the f-stop you have the shutter speed
and then you have ISO aperture is just
how wide your lens is so if you have a
bigger aperture you're letting in more
light if you have a smaller aperture
you're not letting in as much light the
shutter speed is how long you are
capturing the picture so if it's a super
fast shutter speed you're able to like
freeze motion and you know it doesn't
let in as much light and then a slower
shutter speed will let in more light and
then ISO is basically like gain if you
have adjusted your aperture and shutter
speed you know to your liking and it's
still kind of a dark image then you can
add in some ISO and some artificial
light I guess you can say so I'm going
to dive in a little bit deeper into the
each of these different settings but
first is aperture commonly you will see
the f-stop or aperture listed as like F
and then like a slash and then a number
so f 2 or F 2.8 F for that bottom
denominator number just as a gauge of
how big your app sure can be and so that
just basically means your lens is
obviously letting in light that's how it
captures a picture the aperture is going
to tell you how much light this lens
will let in at a specific point so when
you're looking at lenses on like Amazon
or wherever you know you're buying it
whatever you see the f you know 2.8 or
f/4 number that tells you the lowest
aperture can go so the widest it can be
the much light as it can
so obviously Allen's with like an F 1.2
or an F 1.4 or F 2 are your nicer lenses
because they're gonna be able to let in
more light so that means they're gonna
be better in low light situations
because they can let in more light two
terms that are associated with the
aperture is bokeh and depth of field
bokeh is just basically the blurriness
of the picture you know when your
subject is really in focus and then the
background is really blurred out and
depth of field is just how much you know
in your picture are you gonna have in
focus so say if you have a f/2 lens
you're shooting wide open that means
that you're gonna get more you know like
bokeh
you're gonna get more that blurry feel
to your pictures because it's gonna have
less of your picture in focus it's gonna
have a you know smaller depth of field
so say if you're taking a picture you
know taking a portrait of a person and
their eyes and their nose and their
mouth are in focus but maybe you know
the edges of their figure starts to get
blurry
you know that's usually when you shoot
wide open but say if you want a super
sharp image you know you want everything
in focus you know the person then maybe
you'd stop it down to like f4 FA so you
know at the you know when you start
closing down your aperture that
increases your depth of field and that
makes for more things and focus so that
means we were taking video and your
aperture is you know more towards F 1.4
f2 there might be a little bit harder to
Rack focus because your depth of field
is gonna be shorter so less things are
going to be in focus but if you stop it
down to maybe f/4 and then maybe
focusing it's a little bit easier
because more things are going to be a
focus so moving on the shutter speed
shutter speed is basically how long it
takes for a picture to be captured a
common shutter speed is one over
sixtieth of a second that just means you
know the mirror goes up on your DSLR for
a 160 of
and then it shuts and then the image is
captured so that means the longer that
the image is being captured onto your
sensor the more like it's gonna let it
so the bigger the shutter speed like one
over thirty one over sixty you're
letting in more light because you're
taking the picture for longer once you
get into the smaller shutter speeds like
one over 400 or one over 800 that means
that's capturing the picture in one over
four hundredths of a second which is
like super quick so that means the
shutter is taking a picture quicker
which means it's letting in less light
so what does that mean for your picture
all that means is if you're using you
know shadow should be like 1 over 400
that means you're capturing the picture
quicker so that means you're maybe
freezing motions to say you're taking
like pictures out of soccer game or
something your kiddo is running and that
means you can capture you know their
motion quicker so you know say you want
to freeze motion or you want to make
sure that your pictures I'm going to be
blurry then you would make that shutter
speed you know something higher like 1
over 120 or 1 over 140 or something like
that but you know shutter speed is like
1 over sixtieth of a second do let in
more light so it is better if you are
you know looking to let more light into
the camera once you get into shutter
speeds like 1 over 15 or 1 over 10 it is
almost impossible to take that like just
hand hill because just the shake of your
hand will make the picture blur I just
think about it you're leaving that
shutter open for one over tenth of a
second rather than like one over one
hundredth of a second so you're taking
that picture for longer so it encounters
you know maybe the slight shake of your
hand or something
so shutter speed for taking pictures is
just the length that the picture is
being taken when you talk about the
video side of things the rule of thumb
for shutter speed is to have your
shutter speed double of what your frame
rate is
you're shooting 24 frames per second or
30 frames per second in video mode you
want to take your frame rate so say it's
24 doublet which 24 times 2 is 48 and
find the closest shutter speed to that
so that shutter speed would be 1 over 50
now this is not like the rule so you can
play around with it it's just kind of
like a guideline and so that just gives
you the most natural motion blur but you
can play around with it so the last
thing we're talking about is ISO or is
this is basically just you adding gain
adding kind of artificial light to your
picture or your video so that means say
you have your actor set at what you want
and you have your shutter speed set at
what you want but it is still too dark
of an image that is when you add in ISO
this is basically saying look my picture
is too dark I need it I need some more
light so I'm gonna crank out my ISO a
little bit now you have to be careful
with how much you crank it because it
will add grain to your picture so you
know cameras ISO range from typically
like 100 to maybe like 12,000 or 100 to
6400 so the wider your ISO range
typically the better the camera because
that means you can go to a higher ISO
without adding that gross grain look to
it so say typical DSLR would be from
like 100 to 12,000 ISO so if you're
taking your picture odds to dark have to
crank the eisah to maybe like 2 400 500
cool you still get a great picture
usually I don't exceed like 1,000 or
2,000 ISO you know you start once you
start getting up into that higher ISO
range your pictures and video start to
just turn kind of gross and grainy but
that is just up to you to play with you
know push kind of your
see what the highest ISO range is for
you so typically you would want to keep
your ISO as low as possible so say if
you're shooting outside it's a beautiful
sunny day you would you know typically
want to keep your ISO at the lowest
level which would probably be ISO 100
and then you just adjust your aperture
and shutter speed accordingly yes so the
aperture shutter speed and ISO it's just
three ways to control the light that is
coming in to your camera it's as simple
as that but I know it can be kind of
confusing in the beginning so the best
way to get better at this is to just go
out and shoot like don't stop shooting
but if you do have any questions leave
me some comments down below and I will
get back to you or you can find another
Twitter I will tweet you back and the
outlook for the final two installments
of this series and they come in Tuesdays
and if you're familiar with my channel I
do a lot of travel videos and at the end
of May I am going to Iceland which I'm
so excited about um so I'll be bringing
some cool content to the channel from
that very soon so hit that subscribe
button let me know if you liked it
and find me on Instagram yeah links down
blue so thanks for watching I will see
you in the next one